# URL Shortener Application

This is a URL Shortener Application built with React for the frontend, Spring Boot for the backend, and MongoDB Atlas for the database.

# How to run the application locally

# Prerequisites

Before running the application, ensure that you have the following tools and services installed:
•	Java 8+ for the backend
•	Node.js and npm for the frontend
•	Git for cloning the repository
•	MongoDB Atlas account with the database created and connected via application.properties

# Running the Application Locally

# 1. Clone the Repository
Clone the repository to your local machine using the following command:
	git clone https://github.com/Aswin922/Url-Shortener-Application.git
# 2. Backend Setup (Spring Boot)

If you are using Eclipse IDE:
1.	Open Eclipse IDE.
2.	Import the existing Maven project from the directory:
Url_Shortener/Backend/urlshortener
3.	Run the Maven build command to install dependencies:
mvn clean install
4.	Once the build is complete, update the Maven project and clean it by right-clicking on the project and selecting Maven > Update Project.
5.	Run the main file as a Java application:
Url_Shortener/Backend/urlshortener/src/main/java/com/project/urlshortener/UrlShortenerApplication.java
The backend will be running on http://localhost:8080.

If you are using VSCode IDE:
1.	Open VSCode.
2.	Open the backend folder:
Url_Shortener/Backend/urlshortener
3.	Open a terminal in VSCode and run the following command:
./mvnw spring-boot:run
The backend will be running on http://localhost:8080.

# 3. Frontend Setup (React)

If you are using VSCode:
1.	Open VSCode.
2.	Open the frontend folder:
Url_Shortener/Frontend/url-shortener
3.	Install the necessary dependencies by running the following command:
npm install
4.	Once the dependencies are installed, build the project using:
npm run build
5.	Start the frontend by running:
npm start
The frontend will be running on http://localhost:3000.

# 4. Application Workflow

1.	Shorten a URL:
o	Enter a long URL in the frontend form.
o	The backend will generate a unique short key and return the shortened URL.

2.	Redirect Using Short URL:
o	Enter the short URL generated by the application via the frontend interface and will redirect you to the original URL.

3.	Manage URLs:
o	View all shortened URLs and their associated click counts in the frontend.
o	Delete URLs as needed via the frontend interface.

